1)Give the values of the variables x, y and z. Write a program to rotate their values such that x
has the value of y, y has the value of z and z has the value of x.

2) To calculate the salary of an employee given his basic pay (take input from user). Calculate
salary of employee. Let HRA be 10 % of basic pay and TA be 5% of basic pay. Let
employees pay professional tax as 2% of total salary. Calculate salary payable after
deductions.

3) To accept the total number of minutes as input and then output as hrs + minutes. Ex:- 90
minutes=1hr 30 mins.

4) To accept an object mass in kilograms and velocity in meters per second and display its
momentum. Momentum is calculated as p=mv where m is the mass of the object and v is its
velocity.

5) To accept marks of five courses of students and compute his/her result. Student is passing if
he/she scores marks equal to and above 40 in each course. If student scores aggregate greater
than 75%, then the grade is Distinction. If aggregate is 60>= and <75 then the grade is First
division. If aggregate is 50>= and <60, then the grade is Second division. If aggregate is 40>=
and <50, then the grade is Third division.

6) To read the coordinates (x, y) (in Cartesian system) and find the quadrant to which it belongs
(Quadrant -I, Quadrant -II, Quadrant -III, Quadrant -IV).

7) A hotel has a pricing policy as follows: 2 people: 2500Rs. 3 people: 3500Rs. 4 people:
4500Rs. Additional people: 1000Rs. per person If the customer is staying on company
business, there is a 20% discount. If the customer is over 60 year age, there is a 15% discount.
A customer does not receive both discounts. Given the above data, print the cost of the room.

8) To check whether the input number is Armstrong number or not. An Armstrong number is an
integer with three digits such that the sum of the cubes of its digits is equal to the number
itself. Ex. 371.

9) Teacher is doing the analysis of the internal examination of a student. She has conducted
programming & problem solving course test with maximum marks 25 where students have to
score at least 12 marks to clear the test. Now she wants to find top scorer, lowest scorer, total
number of pass and fail students. Apply the logic and perform the given task.

10) Write a program to simulate a simple calculator that performs basic tasks such as addition,
subtraction, multiplication and division with special operations like computing xy
and x!.

11) Accept number from 1 to 12 and print equivalent month of a year.

12) Write a program to accept the number and Compute a) square root of number, b) Square of
number, c) Cube of number d) check for prime, d) factorial of number, e) prime factors.

13) The students want to play a game in which blocks are used denoting some integer from 0 to 9.
These are arranged together in a random manner without seeing to form different numbers
keeping in mind that the first block is never a 0. Once they form a 5 digit number they read in
the reverse order to check if the number and its reverse is the same. If both are same then the
player wins.(Palindrome)

14) Trainer is conducting a session for all 20 employees. She has employee ids of all employees
represented in 6 digit numbers. She wants to make two groups of employees based on even
number employee ID or odd number employee ID. Identify the steps to solve the problem and
implement it

15) Programmer is teaching a course to students. There are N students attending the course,
numbered 1 through N. Before each lesson, he has to take attendance, i.e. call out the names
of students one by one and mark which students are present. Each student has a first name and
a last name. In order to save time, He wants to call out only the first names of students.
However, whenever there are multiple students with the same first name, he has to call out the
full names (both first and last names) of all these students. Help him to decide, for each
student, whether he will call out this student's full name or only the first name. Input: List of
all student names (First & Last name)

16) Consider you have created a website in which you are accepting details of users where you
have to take password from the user. Accept password from user with following condition:
1. Minimum characters 6 and maximum are 12.
2. At least one digit and one character.
3. At least one special symbol(@, $,#) .



